# Hand-Gesture-Recognition-Mobile-Application
Wireless devices play an important role in our life . Mobile phones can be used to help people to overcome their problems that face them every day, every where. Here it intended to enable deaf mutes to communicate smoothly and easily with their communities.          This project is considered a mobile application that can get benefit from mobile cameras to serve deaf–mute people to translate the sign language into voice.  Mobile takes a video for signs and send it to server and the server sends voice to other mobile.          This application will give the deaf-mute people the opportunity to overcome their problem and become more flexible to communicate with people without any difficulties. This project is targeted to serve over than 10 million people in Egypt that have this handicap and will serve any communications company to enlarge its customer number.         During the last half of the century, sign languages are now accepted as minority languages which coexist with majority languages, and they are the native languages for many deaf-mutes. Various sign language systems have been developed by manufacturers around the globe but they are neither flexible nor cost-effective for the end users. With the development of software operated hand held devices, hand gesture recognition became a new hope for this group of people to communicate among themselves or with other people. However device based measurement which measures hand gestures with equipment such as data gloves which can archive the accurate positions of hand gestures as its positions are directly measured. Secondly, vision-based technique which can cover hands signer in which signer does not need to wear data gloves device.
